---
layout: post
title: "FPV Camera Waterproof Test"
date: 2013-3-
---

Recently, Team 2 has been hard at work designing 3D-printed modules for the weatherization of the Black Bat quad. Like all of the other 3D printed items, the camera 3D module is made from ABS plastic and is spray painted black before it goes on the quad. The camera was mounted on the front of the Black Bat. Consequently, the 3D module for the FPV camera must be completely waterproof as it will experience a high volume of moisture in poor flight conditions. The team decided it was a good idea to completely submerge the camera and 3D module into a bucket of water to test if it would still transmit a video picture to the ground station.

Before revealing the results of the test, it should be noted that the 3D module was not the only protection the camera was provided. Team 2 has begun testing an encapsulant compound that encases the electronic devices in the 3D modules to further shield them from the elements. The FPV 3D module was filled with FORMEROL F.10, a commercial self-setting, moldable silicone compound marketed under the name Sugru, jokingly referred to as Play-Doh by the Black Bat team. The self-setting silicone compound completely filled the empty space in the 3D module and adhered the two pieces of the 3D module together. The compound was also applied to the base of the three wire connections to the PCB of the camera to completely seal the 3D module off from water.

A target item was placed at the bottom of the bucket for the camera to look at underwater. The Black Bat sat nearby with the camera and 3D module detached, providing power and the a transmitter for the signal. Also nearby was the ground station, tuned to receive the video signal at the same frequency as the transmitter. Preliminary tests showed that the camera, transmitter, receiver, and monitor were operational while the camera was dry. Slowly, and with someone ready to cut the power from the LiPo battery, the camera was lowered into the water. To the delight of the team, the camera continued to transmit video signals while submerged. Although a bit blurry, the camera transmitted images to the monitor of the ground station for the duration of the ten minute test. The first trials of Team 2’s 3D encapsulation were a complete success.